---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/240630b-scotus-diz-que-e-ilegal-sem-teto-dormirem-ao-relento/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


Supreme Court says cities can ban homeless people from sleeping outside. The Supreme Court on Friday ruled that cities may ban homeless residents from sleeping outside, rejecting a constitutional challenge to a set of anti-camping laws in a decision that will have a sweeping impact on how local officials address the nation’s escalating housing crisis. In a 6-3 decision, which broke along ideological lines, the court’s conservative majority said that regulations penalizing people for sleeping in public spaces such as parks and streets do not constitute “cruel and unusual punishment” under the Eighth Amendment, even when a community lacks indoor shelter and its unhoused residents have nowhere else to go. (...) The case centered on laws enacted in Grants Pass, Ore., and the court’s review comes at a time when officials across the country are struggling to deal with a growing number of unhoused individuals. The problem is especially pronounced in the American West, where soaring housing costs have driven more and more vulnerable people into homelessness. (...) In Grants Pass, a city of 40,000, officials heralded the decision (...) Because Grants Pass does not have a homeless shelter, hundreds of unhoused residents took refuge in the city’s public parks as the case played out (...) (Article Name: Supreme Court says cities can ban homeless people from sleeping outside. Publication: The Washington Post. Date 30 jun 2024. Author: BY REIS THEBAULT AND ANN E. MARIMOW Start Page: A3 End Page: A3) (q.v.: #direitos-humanos [[Direitos humanos\|Direitos humanos]] RQR6E15 #política #direito #novaonda [[Nova onda\|Nova onda]] antissistema anti-sistema RQR6e8 ex-69Y68q #política #fascismo #bolsonaro #antipolítico #capitalismo [[Capitalismo\|Capitalismo]] RQR6e18 ex-85G24x #cultwars [[cultwars-guerras-culturais\|cultwars-guerras-culturais]] ideologias narrativas RQR17L  - 

gpho OZ 240630b

https://photos.google.com/photo/AF1QipMhz4Myaa8-ZPT7ZLuDrHD_Ro7dVXJaSIGsV6eE