---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/240624d-a-moda-da-omni-causa-esta-colapsando/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

The ‘Omnicause’ Is Collapsing. (...) If you protest one thing, you protest everything—intersectional inanity. Like Queers for Palestine, which makes as much sense as “Chickens for KFC.” Fortunately, the Omnicause is beginning to collapse under the weight of its logical fallacies. (...) Antiwar is one thing, but the colonizer claptrap is unbearable. Segments of the Omnicause are usually anticapitalism, antigrowth or proworld-government. Climate hysteria scores a perfect trifecta. Using twisted logic, socialism is apparently the cure for racism. But the backlash is enabling a political move to the right in Europe, South America and, if polls are to be believed, the U.S. (...) So why the Omnicause? My theory is that society is afflicted with a bad case of affluenza. Life has become too easy.  (...) Even the well-off need to complain about something, so they complain about everything.  (...) On June 2, Free Palestine protesters blocked the Philadelphia Pride March (...) Always remember this saying:  “You are the carbon they wish to eliminate.” (Article Name: The ‘Omnicause’ Is Collapsing. Publication: The Wall Street Journal. 24 jun 2024. Section: OPINION. Author: INSIDE VIEW By Andy Kessler Write to kessler@wsj.com. Start Page: A15 End Page: A15)

(q.v.  #mimimi [[Mimimi o planeta dos coitados civilizacao de retardados\|Mimimi o planeta dos coitados civilizacao de retardados]] RQR17o ex-97D25z #bnw [[Brave new world\|Brave new world]] RQR17a ex-76U12m #ambiente [[Meio-ambiente\|Meio-ambiente]] ambiental poluição ecologia efeito estufa apocalipse catástrofe climático RQR17R #direita-esquerda [[direita-vs-esquerda-vs-direita\|direita-vs-esquerda-vs-direita]] RQR6e7 ex-77n76f #cultwars [[cultwars-guerras-culturais\|cultwars-guerras-culturais]] ideologias narrativas RQR17L  -  #política [[Politica\|Politica]] RQR6e2 61U15a misc div)