---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/240621v-georgia-usa-obriga-dez-mandamentos-em-salas-de-aula/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

In Louisiana, Commandments Required in Public Classrooms. The New York Times, 20 Jun 2024, By RICK ROJAS. ATLANTA — Gov. Jeff Landry signed legislation on Wednesday requiring the display of the Ten Commandments in every public classroom in Louisiana, making the state the only one with such a mandate and reigniting the debate over how porous the boundary between church and state should be. Critics, including the American Civil Liberties Union and the Freedom From Religion Foundation, vowed a legal fight against the law they deemed “blatantly unconstitutional.” But it is a battle that proponents are prepared, and in many ways, eager, to take on. “I can’t wait to be sued,” Mr. Landry said (...) The legislation is part of a broader campaign by conservative Christian groups to amplify public expressions of faith. (Article Name:In Louisiana, Commandments Required in Public Classrooms - Publication:The New York Times - Date: 20 jun 2024 - Section:PAGE 1 - Author:By RICK ROJAS - Start Page:A1 - End Page:A1)

(q.v.: #estado-laico RQR6e20 e [[Teocracia\|Teocracia]] #religião e #política #tirania #fundamentalismo )(q.v.: #novaonda [[Nova onda\|Nova onda]] antissistema anti-sistema RQR6e8 ex-69Y68q #política #fascismo #bolsonaro #antipolítico #política [[Politica\|Politica]] RQR6e2 61U15a misc div)

nms: Escolas da Louisiana terão de exibir Dez Mandamentos. A Louisiana, nos EUA, se tornou o primeiro Estado a exigir que os Dez Mandamentos sejam exibidos em todas as salas de aula das escolas públicas. A legislação, que o governador republicano, Jeff Landry, assinou na quarta-feira, exige a exibição dos mandamentos em um pôster, com “fonte grande e facilmente legível” em todas as salas de aula públicas, desde o jardim de infância até universidades financiadas pelo Estado. (Article Name: Escolas da Louisiana terão de exibir Dez Mandamentos  Publication: O Estado de S. Paulo. Date:  21 Jun 2024  Start Page: A11  End Page: A11)

mais: All Oklahoma schools ordered to teach Ten Commandments. Oklahoma’s state superintendent has announced that all schools are required to teach the Bible and the Ten Commandments, a dramatic move that reignites the conversation about the separation of church and state. (...) He added:  “The Bible is a necessary historical document to teach our kids about the history of this country, to have a complete understanding of western civilisation, to have an understanding of the basis of our legal system.” (Article Name: All Oklahoma schools ordered to teach Ten Commandments Publication: The Guardian 29 jun 2024. Author: Erum Salam Start Page: 44 End Page: 44) ( https://photos.google.com/photo/AF1QipOFbBOrggci4_hnE43ZS1Ysnm4MMgAXf6Ta3pn1 OZ 240621v )