---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/240628a-escribas-do-egito-tinham-ler-doencas-profissionais-artrite/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


Work like an Egyptian? Scribes were worn out, say researchers. From bad backs to eye strain, office work can take its toll on the body. But it seems such perils are nothing new:  researchers have found that Egyptian scribes experienced damage to their hips, jaws and thumbs as a result of their efforts. Experts studying the remains of scribes buried in the necropolis at Abusir, Egypt, between 2700 and 2180BC say that, compared with men who undertook other work, the administrators showed signs of degenerative joint changes. “Our study should provide an answer to the question of what occupational risk factors were associated with the ‘profession’ of scribe in ancient Egypt,” said Petra Brukner Havelková, first author of the study at the National Museum in Prague.(...) Scribes had a higher incidence of osteoarthritis in the joints between the lower jaw and the skull, the right collarbone, the right shoulder, the right thumb, the right knee, and the spine – especially in the neck. The results were consistent with the cross-legged postures scribes have been depicted as adopting in ancient art. The changes around the jaw could also be linked to the habit scribes had of chewing their rush tools to make a brush-like head. 

(Article Name: Work like an Egyptian? Scribes were worn out, say researchers Publication: The Guardian. Date:  28 Jun 2024. Section: National Author: Nicola Davis Science correspondent Start Page: 14 End Page: 14). q.v.:  - #ipsuud RQR21b6 [[IPSUUD isso pode ser util um dia\|IPSUUD isso pode ser util um dia]] - #wtf [[300621n WTF!_ index RQR10F4\|300621n WTF!_ index RQR10F4]] - #saúde  saúde - #história [[Historia\|Historia]] ex-88J26q misc div