---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/240622j-impacto-da-turne-de-taylor-swift-na-inflacao/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

(Taylor) Swift’s Effect on Inflation for Europe (...) Swift will perform in eight shows this summer at London’s Wembley Stadium that are expected to draw 700,000 people and generate an estimated 300 million pounds ((cifrão)379 million) for the economy. (...) about 700,000 people are expected to see the shows in the British capital. And analysts are debating the economic footprint it will leave.. (...) one company estimated that the tour could generate (cifrão)4.6 billion in North America alone from spending on tickets, merchandise and travel. (...) The demand that the Eras Tour creates for hotel rooms and flights across Europe could push up prices that feed into each country’s inflation rate. (...) Last month, Portugal’s inflation rate accelerated, in part because of a jump in hotel prices in Lisbon “resulting from a major cultural event,” the country’s statistics office said. Ms. Swift performed in Lisbon on May 24 and 25. (...) If hotel prices follow the pattern set when she played in Liverpool this month, services inflation could rise as much as 0.3 percentage points. (...) Barclays predicted that Ms. Swift's tour would lead to a bump of nearly 1 billion pounds ((cifrão)1.3 billion) in the British economy (Article Name: Swift’s Effect on Inflation for Europe. Date: 22 jun 2024. Publication: The New York Times. Section: BUSINESS. Author: By ESHE NELSON. Start Page: B4 End Page:B4)

(q.v. #celebridades [[celebridades-fama-gloria-renome-e-seu-culto\|celebridades-fama-gloria-renome-e-seu-culto]] famosos influencers #economia [[Economia\|Economia]] RQR18c ciência, em tese, mix com economia no BNW e economia em brasis ex-83T66g #bnw [[Brave new world\|Brave new world]] RQR17a ex-76U12m)