---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/240707a-festival-de-rock-politicamente-correto/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


Glastonbury is a bit woke, says Gallagher as he urges bands to ‘stop yapping’. Glastonbury festivalgoers should hear bands play without their ‘virtue signalling’, Noel Gallagher says. Noel Gallagher, long a champion of leftwing political causes such as the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, has decried Glastonbury festival as “getting a bit woke now”. Speaking to the Sun, the former Oasis guitarist said:  “It’s getting a bit woke now, that place, and a bit kind of preachy and a bit virtue signalling. I don’t like it in music – little fucking idiots waving flags around and making political statements and bands taking the stage and saying, ‘Hey guys, isn’t war terrible, yeah? Let’s all boo war. Fuck the Tories man’, and all that. It’s like, look, play your fucking tunes and get off.” (...) This year’s festival featured some high-profile political statements, most prominently from Banksy, who launched an inflatable raft holding dummy migrants across the crowds (...) leading the crowd in a chant of “fuck the king”. Strong support for Palestine was shown by audiences for 47Soul, a Palestinian-Jordanian alternative rap group, and Palestine flags were also waved (...) . (Article Name: Glastonbury is a bit woke, says Gallagher as he urges bands to ‘stop yapping’ Publication: The Guardian Section: National Author: Ben Beaumont-Thomas Start Page: 36 End Page: 36). q.v.  - #arte-e-política [[Politizacao da arte engajamento intelectual organico engajado\|Politizacao da arte engajamento intelectual organico engajado]] RQR6E24 #arte #política #cultwars [[cultwars-guerras-culturais\|cultwars-guerras-culturais]] ideologias narrativas wokeísmo politicamente correto RQR17L  - 

Zettel criado em 07/07/2024 
