---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/240705a-armas-autonomas-controladas-por-ia-na-ucrania/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


In Ukraine, Off-the-Shelf A.I. Opens an Age of Killer Robots. Fear of New Arms Race Raises the Stakes of an Ethics Debate. KYIV, Ukraine — In a field on the outskirts of Kyiv, the founders of Vyriy, a Ukrainian drone company, were recently at work on a weapon of the future. (...) a drone followed, as a colleague tracked the movements from a briefcase-size computer. Until recently, a human would have piloted the quadcopter. No longer. Instead, after the drone locked onto its target — Mr. Babenko — it flew itself, guided by software that used the machine’s camera to track him. (...) Vyriy is just one of many Ukrainian companies working on a major leap forward in the weaponization of consumer technology, driven by the war with Russia. The pressure (...) **has turned Ukraine into a Silicon Valley for autonomous drones and other weaponry**. What the companies are creating is technology that makes human judgment about targeting and firing increasingly tangential. The widespread availability of off-the-shelf devices, easy-to-design software, powerful automation algorithms and specialized artificial intelligence microchips has pushed a deadly innovation race into uncharted territory, fueling a potential new era of killer robots. The most advanced versions of the technology that allows drones and other machines to act autonomously have been made possible by deep learning, a form of A.I. that uses large amounts of data to identify patterns and make decisions. Deep learning has helped generate popular large language models, like OpenAI’s GPT-4, but it also helps make models interpret and respond in real time to video and camera footage. That means software that once helped a drone follow a snowboarder down a mountain can now become a deadly tool. (...) a picture emerged of a near future when swarms of self-guided drones can coordinate attacks and machine guns with computer vision can automatically shoot down soldiers. More outlandish creations, like a hovering unmanned copter that wields machine guns, are also being developed. (...) **Except for the munitions, many of these weapons are built with code found online and components such as hobbyist computers, like Raspberry Pi, that can be bought from Best Buy and a hardware store** (...) Saker has gone further in recent weeks, successfully using a reconnaissance drone that identified targets with A.I. and then dispatched autonomous kamikaze drones for the kill, Viktor said. (...) have emerged on the front lines using A.I.trained software to automatically track and shoot targets. Not dissimilar to the object identification featured in surveillance cameras, software on a screen surrounds humans and other would-be targets with a digital box. All that’s left for the shooter to do is remotely pull the trigger with a video game controller. For now, the gun makers say they do not allow the machine gun to fire without a human pressing a button. But they also said it would be easy to make one that could. (...) The Rise of Slaughterbots (...) Officials have spent **more than a decade debating rules about the use of autonomous weapons**, but few expect any international deal to set new regulations (...) “**The geopolitics makes it impossible**, (...) Groups including the International Committee of the Red Cross have pushed for legally binding rules that prohibit certain types of autonomous weapons (...) For many in Ukraine, the debate is academic. (...) “**We need to win first**”

(Article Name: In Ukraine, Off-the-Shelf A.I. Opens an Age of Killer Robots Publication: The New York Times Date: 5 Jul 2024 Author: By PAUL MOZUR and ADAM SATARIANO Start Page: A6 End Page: A6). q.v.:  - #a-guerra  [[as-guerras\|as-guerras]] war RQR7H6 ex-78t75f - #IA  [[IA-inteligencia-artificial-IA-ou-AI-index\|IA-inteligencia-artificial-IA-ou-AI-index]] AI (mix algoritmos ?) - #bnw [[Brave new world\|Brave new world]] RQR17a ex-76U12m - #ética [[Etica\|Etica]] RQR6d4  33Y17h misc div. GPHO 240705a , 4 img, links: <https://photos.google.com/photo/AF1QipMe3HqQ_6zKegyu5YNOF_td790Rq9O1w17OeFis>, <https://photos.google.com/photo/AF1QipN1ct8cL38NgljplpgbRd-ayRbGSt1lliwjiyFJ>, <https://photos.google.com/photo/AF1QipOUDeD2oI8O-y2L9y3laADCtRPzVrZGOovaswPa>. 

Zettel criado em 05/07/2024 
