---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/240702w-neandertais-cuidaram-de-crianca-com-sindrome-de-down/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


Neanderthals cared for a child with Down syndrome, fossil suggests. (...) Evidence of a Neanderthal child with Down syndrome who survived to the age of 6 suggests the youngster was cared for by the social group, according to a new study. The piece of bone was found in the Cova Negra cave site in Spain’s Valencia region and analyzed by a research team led by Mercedes Conde-valverde of the University of Alcalá in Madrid. The results, published Wednesday in the journal Science Advances, concluded that the fragment probably came from the inner ear of a 6-year-old. The specimen had evidence of abnormalities, and “the only syndrome that is compatible with the entire set of malformations present in [the fossil] is Down syndrome,” the authors wrote. Down syndrome — which also occurs in great apes and modern humans — would have presented a range of survival challenges for a child, including “poor sucking strength,” which makes breastfeeding difficult; lack of motor coordination and balance; and impaired cognitive development, the study notes. The child probably experienced severe hearing loss and frequent issues with acute, disabling vertigo and imbalance, it added. “Because of the demanding lifestyle of Neanderthals, including high levels of mobility, it is difficult to think that the mother of the individual would have been able to provide such care alone and also carry out normal daily activities over a prolonged period of time,” the authors wrote.(...) Implications that Neanderthals could have exhibited care for vulnerable members of their group have been found in previous studies. In 2018, researchers from the University of York reviewed available evidence and concluded that a sample of Neanderthal fossils with healed traumatic injuries suggested that health care was widespread. (...) Other scientists have said Neanderthals may have provided care to sick or injured members of their group with the expectation of a reciprocal benefit, rather than out of benevolence. Critics say compassion cannot be authoritatively deduced from remains and requires too many assumptions, the paper in Science Advances acknowledged. Evidence of Neanderthal cannibalism published in 2016 also points to the species’ capacity for brutality.

(Article Name: Neanderthals cared for a child with Down syndrome, fossil suggests Publication: The Washington Post Date:  28 junho 2024. Author: BY FRANCES VINALL Start Page: A7 End Page: A7)

q.v.  - #pré-história [[Historia pre-literaria ou pre-historia\|Historia pre-literaria ou pre-historia]] RQR7f4 história pré literária (mix RQR7b4) - #ética [[Etica\|Etica]] RQR6d4  33Y17h misc div - #solidariedade-virtude [[virtude solidariedade RQR 6d12j\|virtude solidariedade RQR 6d12j]] RQR6d12j - #natureza-humana RQR6h2 ou essência do homem (não mix #condição-humana #homem-lobo)

Zettel criado em 02/07/2024 
