---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/240702b-mostra-de-arte-censurada-por-discriminar-homens-movida-para-banheiro-feminino/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

A Court Ruled an Exhibit Discriminated Against Men. Now It’s in the Women’s Restroom. The Museum of Old and New Art in Tasmania hung several paintings in a women’s restroom after a court ruled that its installation could not be exclusive to women. A framed Picasso painting hangs to the right of a sign that says “Ladies Room.” (...) The curator, Kirsha Kaechele, had opened the exhibition “Ladies Lounge” at the Museum of Old and New Art in Hobart, the capital of the Australian state of Tasmania, as a space where women could “indulge in decadent nibbles, fancy tipples and other ladylike pleasures.” But the installation was shuttered in the spring, after the Tasmanian Civil and Administrative Tribunal found it to be discriminatory against men. Ms. Kaechele said at the time that the discrimination was part of the point, a nod to male-only spaces in Australia. (...) The exhibition’s room was enclosed by green silk curtains and was guarded by an attendant who welcomed women but denied entry to men. Decorated with a black mink rug, green velvet furniture and a Venetian Murano chandelier, the room displayed antiquities, precious jewels owned by Ms. Kaechele and her family and the Picassos that now hang in the bathroom. (...) But when Jason Lau, a visitor to the museum, was denied entry in April 2023, he sued and said he had experienced gender discrimination (...) Ms. Kaechele said that she agreed that Mr. Lau had faced discrimination, but that his experience was central to the work. “Given the conceptual power of the artwork, and the value of the artworks inside the artwork, his detriment is real,” she said. “He’s at a loss.” She added, “I’m not sorry.” In April, the tribunal gave the museum 28 days to close, remove or reform the exhibit — or begin admitting men. In a blog post on the museum’s website in May, Ms. Kaechele said she was considering options for changes to the exhibition that would bring it into compliance, including turning it into a church. (...) 

(Tumin, Remy. “A Court Ruled an Exhibit Discriminated against Men. Now It’s in the Women’s Restroom.” The New York Times, June 25, 2024. Disponível em: <https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/25/world/australia/picasso-ladies-bathroom-mona-tasmania.html#:~:text=The%20Museum%20of%20Old%20and,not%20be%20exclusive%20to%20women.&text=When%20an%20Australian%20court%20ruled,paintings%20to%20the%20women's%20restroom.>, acesso em 02 de julho de 2024.)

GPHO 240702a. <https://photos.google.com/photo/AF1QipPd8FjGYq7vP9ZyfYCbC8MGCcj6_G6vGReaengU>

q.v. - #machismo  [[Feminismo\|Feminismo]] questões de gênero - #arte [[Arte\|Arte]] RQR6n4 ex-34A34d conceito[[Estetica\|Estetica]]] filoarte (mix RQR6n2 ex-61Z54v #narratologia ) - #arte-e-política[[Politizacao da arte engajamento intelectual organico engajado\|Politizacao da arte engajamento intelectual organico engajado]]] RQR6E24 #arte #política #direito [[Direito\|Direito]] - #conjuri24 [[231005d projeto Conjuri24 preparacao ideias e notas\|231005d projeto Conjuri24 preparacao ideias e notas]]]. Q.V. [[260224-EUA-processam-coca-por-dicriminacao-contra-homens\|260224-EUA-processam-coca-por-dicriminacao-contra-homens]]

Zettel criado em 02/07/2024 
