---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/240703a-internet-chega-aos-indios-isolados-da-amazonia/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


The Internet’s Final Frontier:  Remote Amazon Tribes of Brazil. A Window to the World Unites and Divides A Starlink antenna in the Manakieaway village of the Marubo. Since September, the 2,000-member tribe has been going online with the satellite-internet service from Space X, the space company owned by Elon Musk. “When it arrived, everyone was happy,” said Tsainama Marubo, 73. “But now, things have gotten worse,” she said. (...) “Young people have gotten lazy because of the internet,” she said. “They’re learning the ways of the white people.” Then she paused and added, “But please don’t take our internet away.”(...) After only nine months with Starlink, the Marubo are already grappling with the same challenges that have racked American households for years:  teenagers glued to phones; group chats full of gossip; addictive social networks; online strangers; violent video games; scams; misinformation; and minors watching pornography. (...) the internet’s reach, like the Amazon. There are now 66,000 active contracts in the Brazilian Amazon, touching 93 percent of the region’s legal municipalities. That has opened new job and education opportunities for those who live in the forest. It has also given illegal loggers and miners in the Amazon a new tool to communicate and evade authorities.(...) The internet was an immediate sensation. “It changed the routine so much that it was detrimental,” Enoque admitted. “In the village, if you don’t hunt, fish and plant, you don’t eat.” Leaders realized they needed limits. The internet would be switched on for only two hours in the morning, five hours in the evening, and all day Sunday. (...) In April, seven months after Starlink’s arrival, more than 200 Marubo gathered in a village for meetings. Enoque brought a projector to show a video about bringing Starlink to the villages. As proceedings began, some leaders in the back of the audience spoke up. The internet should be turned off for the meetings, they said. “I don’t want people posting in the groups, taking my words out of context,” another said. (...) Alfredo Marubo, leader of a Marubo association of villages, has emerged as the tribe’s most vocal critic of the internet. The Marubo pass down their history and culture orally, and he worries that knowledge will be lost. “Everyone is so connected that sometimes they don’t even talk to their own family,” he said. He is most unsettled by the pornography. (...) He said some leaders had told him they had already observed more aggressive sexual behavior from young men. (...) Ms. Dutra said Indigenous groups wanted and deserved connections. The criticism, she said, was part of a long tradition of outsiders telling the Indigenous how to live. “This is called ethnocentrism — the white man thinking they know what’s best,” she said. (...) the tribe’s journey with the internet had been foretold. Decades ago, the most respected Marubo shaman had visions of a handheld device that could connect with the entire world. “It would be for the good of the people,” he said. “But in the end, (...) there would be war.” (...) “The leaders have been clear,” he said. “We can’t live without the internet.”

(Article Name: The Internet’s Final Frontier:  Remote Amazon Tribes of Brazil Publication: The New York Times Date: 2 Jun 2024 Author: By JACK NICAS Start Page: 12 End Page: 12). BTB full "240704a internet chega aos índios isolados da Amazônia NYT.md". GPHO mm uiui, 5 img.

q.v. - #bnw [[Brave new world\|Brave new world]] RQR17a ex-76U12m - #redsoc [[REDSOC redes sociais\|REDSOC redes sociais]] - #mimimi[[Mimimi o planeta dos coitados civilizacao de retardados\|Mimimi o planeta dos coitados civilizacao de retardados]]] RQR17o ex-97D25z - #culturas (mix #cultwars) - #cultwars [[cultwars-guerras-culturais\|cultwars-guerras-culturais]] ideologias narrativas RQR17L  -  - #espantos  [[Espantos\|Espantos]]


Zettel criado em 04/07/2024 
