---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/240829b-do-you-need-religion-to-be-a-moral-person/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

﻿
Você precisa de religião para ser uma pessoa moral? A religião é um produto, e não uma fonte, de nossas disposições morais evolutivas. Embora algumas intuições morais, como a deferência à autoridade, possam se alinhar com crenças religiosas, o vínculo entre religião e moralidade não é inerente. Pesquisas científicas sugerem que **a moralidade está enraizada em princípios universais de cooperação, não necessariamente ligados a crenças religiosas**. Um **estudo realizado em 60 sociedades diversas encontrou que sete princípios cooperativos, como lealdade, reciprocidade e respeito pela propriedade, são universalmente considerados moralmente bons**, com raras exceções enraizadas em contextos culturais específicos.

Excerpted from INHERITANCE: THE EVOLUTIONARY ORIGINS OF THE MODERN WORLD by Harvey Whitehouse, published by The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (...) seven principles of cooperation are judged to be morally good everywhere and form the bedrock of a universal moral compass. Those seven principles are: help your kin, be loyal to your group, reciprocate favors, be courageous, defer to superiors, share things fairly, and respect other people’s property (...) These moral intuitions evolved because of their benefits for survival and reproduction (...) evolved via the mechanism of ‘kin selection’, which ensures that we behave in ways that increase the chances of our genes being passed on by endeavoring to help our close genetic relatives to stay alive and produce offspring (...) My colleagues and I assembled a sample of sixty societies that had been extensively studied by anthropologists and therefore provided rich data on prevailing moral norms in those cultural groups. To qualify for inclusion, each society had to have been the subject of at least 1,200 pages of descriptive data pertaining to its cultural system. It must also have been studied by at least one professionally trained anthropologist based on at least one year of immersive fieldwork (...) They were drawn from six major world regions: Sub-Saharan Africa, Circum-Mediterranean, East Eurasia, Insular Pacific, North America, and South America (...) mine 400 documents describing the cultures of these sixty societies to establish whether or not the seven principles of cooperation were judged morally good or not (...) We found 3,460 paragraphs of text that touched upon these cooperative principles (...) This produced 962 observed moral judgments of the seven types of cooperative behavior. In 961 of those instances (99.9 percent of all cases), the cooperative behavior was judged morally good (...) the link between most of the features of intuitive religiosity and the universal moral repertoire is not itself natural but a product of the way religions as cultural systems have evolved as part of our unnatural history of civilization (...) our natural moral imperative to care for kin has been developed in many of the world’s religions into an obligation to take care of our ancestors, by dutifully carrying out a variety of behaviors expressing filial piety (...) the moral rule that we should reciprocate favors also features prominently in the logic of our interactions with the spirit world (...) 

Whitehouse, Harvey. 2024. “Do You Need Religion to Be a Moral Person?”. Big Think. August 22, 2024. Disponível em: <https://bigthink.com/thinking/do-you-need-religion-to-be-a-moral-person>, acesso em 29 de agosto de 2024. | uiui dii 240829b | BTB full - 240829b Do you need religion to be a moral person

#antropofil[[Antropologia filosofica\|Antropologia filosofica]]] RQR6h ex-63U88x RQR6d16  #ética e #metafísica (mix #sistemas-éticos) #sistemas-éticos [[Sistemas eticos fundamentos da etica\|Sistemas eticos fundamentos da etica]]] RQR6d10  fundamentos da ética 51x94s #conjuri24 [[231005d projeto Conjuri24 preparacao ideias e notas\|231005d projeto Conjuri24 preparacao ideias e notas]]] | Zettel criado em 29/08/2024