---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/241021-a-processou-por-nao-ganhar-cartao-de-despedida/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


an airline employee named Karen Conaghan (...). From 2019 until 2021, Conaghan worked as a business liaison for International Airlines Group, or IAG, the parent company of British Airways. For reasons unclear, she was laid off in 2021. And on her last day of work, her colleagues did not give her a card saying goodbye and wishing her luck in her future endeavors. (...) Conaghan felt slighted by the omission. This wasn’t the first time she felt that way, either, but it was the final straw. As The Guardian reported, Conaghan sued IAG, bringing “40 complaints against the company for sexual harassment, victimization, and unfair dismissal.” Her work experience, she alleged, was pervasively awful, and the fact that her coworkers didn’t even say “best wishes” as she left was the key piece of evidence. As Lawyer Monthly explained, “At the heart of Conaghan’s case was the claim that she did not receive a farewell card when she left in 2021, as reported by the news. She contended that this omission represented a lack of recognition for her efforts, suggesting it was part of a larger pattern of mistreatment.” But, per the court, Conaghan’s perceptions didn’t match reality. Per Vice, Conaghan’s “perspective on her workplace experience was clouded by a ‘conspiracy-theory mentality,’” for example, “she says that she used the word ‘whiz’ in a card for a colleague—then says that another colleague then copied her use of the word while simultaneously correcting her spelling to add another ‘Z’ at the end of the word.” In another instance, a colleague accused her of taking all the credit for their collective efforts after she suggested that she, had, in fact, claimed she had done all the hard work. And then came the matter of the missing greeting card. Per the Guardian, “a former colleague told an employment tribunal that managers had indeed bought a card but did not present it to Conaghan because of the low number of signatures.” Basically, the reason Conaghan didn’t get her bon voyage note was because her coworkers didn’t really like her, but didn’t hate her so much as to want to embarrass her. And her not receiving a card was also not unique; two other people who were laid off at around the same time — both of which were men — weren’t given a card, either. The judge in the matter found that Conaghan wasn’t a victim of harassment and that her dismissal was not unfair — her experience, while not always fun, “either did not happen or, if they did happen, they were innocuous interactions in the normal course of employment.” She did not get any compensation for the slights she perceived, and she did not get a greeting card from the court, either.

Lewis, Dan. 2024. “Is It Illegal to Not Wish Someone Farewell? – Now I Know.” Nowiknow.com. 2024. Disponível em: <https://nowiknow.com/is-it-illegal-to-not-wish-someone-farewell>, acesso em 21 de outubro de 2024.

uiui 241021A - #wtf [[300621n WTF!_ index RQR10F4\|300621n WTF!_ index RQR10F4]] #direitobizarro [[Direito bizarro\|Direito bizarro]] RQR5i direito casos bizarros e exemplos #direito #mimimi [[Mimimi o planeta dos coitados civilizacao de retardados\|Mimimi o planeta dos coitados civilizacao de retardados]] RQR17o ex-97D25z - 2024-10-21 12:50 