---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/250218a-associacao-das-pessoas-mortas-da-india/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

Dead People, Supporting Each Other (...) a support group for deceased people — kind of. It’s the Uttar Pradesh Association of Dead People (...) Bihari was, technically, dead (...) And in 1975, at the age of 19, Bihari became a victim of such a scam. His uncle had paid someone to declare Bihari dead, and then “inherited” the land of his officially deceased nephew (...) Bihari, though, was far from dead — not that proving it was so easy. He held a funeral for himself, hoping his presence as a still-living person would convince officials that he was alive. (It didn’t.) His wife applied for benefits as a widow. He tried to get arrested; per Time, he allegedly “kidnapped the son of the uncle who had stolen his property, threatened murder, insulted judges, threw leaflets listing his complaints at legislators in the state assembly” — all in an effort to get the state to acknowledge he was alive (you can’t arrest a dead person), but to no avail. He even ran for parliament in hopes that would make a difference, but he lost the election and no one seemed to care that a “dead” man didn’t win. Ultimately, the wheels of justice turned slowly and in his favor; in 1994, the courts established that the man before them was, in fact, alive (...) Bihari decided to help others in the same situation find their renaissance. In the mid-1990s, he founded the Association of Dead People, a group for people, who, like him, were legally dead but otherwise very much alive (...) dead men who can afford it turn up [to Birhari’s office] from far-off villages,” looking for help

Lewis, Dan. 2025. “Dead People, Supporting Each Other.” Now I Know. 2025. Disponível em: <https://nowiknow.beehiiv.com/p/dead-people-supporting-each-other>, acesso em 18 de fevereiro de 2025.

‌#espantos  [[Espantos\|Espantos]] #direitobizarro [[Direito bizarro\|Direito bizarro]] RQR5i direito casos bizarros e exemplos #direito #wtf [[300621n WTF!_ index RQR10F4\|300621n WTF!_ index RQR10F4]]