---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/250529p-nigerian-scammers-still-claim-to-be-from-nigeria/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

Why Do Nigerian Email Scammers Still Claim to Be From Nigeria? The “Greater Fool” theory in (...) he scams, known as “advance fee” or “419” scams (the latter because section 419 of Nigeria’s criminal code outlaws them (...) In 2014, a researcher for Microsoft named Cormac Herley noticed something curious about 419 scams. Even though everyone knows that you shouldn’t send money to a stranger claiming to be a Nigerian looking for an advance, the scammers still often pretend to be Nigerian. (...) 51% mention Nigeria as the source of funds, with a further 34% mentioning Cˆote d’Ivoire, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Senegal or some other West African country (...) The reason is simple: scammers are looking for an easy mark. And if you’re ignorant enough to believe a “Nigerian prince” (or whatever the occupation du jour is), you’re probably exactly what the con artist is looking for. Or, [as the Atlantic notes](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2012/06/genius-behind-nigerian-e-mail-scams/326724/?utm_source=nowiknow.beehiiv.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=why-do-nigerian-email-scammers-still-claim-to-be-from-nigeria), “the more outlandish the story, the easier it is for the scammer to bypass skeptics and reach believers. (...) The goal of the email is not so much to attract viable users as to repel the non-viable ones, who greatly outnumber them. Failure to repel all but a tiny fraction of non-viable users will make the scheme unprofitable (...) the scam can be very, very profitable. In 2009, NPR’s Planet Money [interviewed](https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2012/06/22/155581764/those-nigerian-email-scams-are-ridiculous-for-a-reason?utm_source=nowiknow.beehiiv.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=why-do-nigerian-email-scammers-still-claim-to-be-from-nigeria) the former head of Nigeria’s financial crimes division (...) the fraudsters he prosecuted “were literally like celebrities. They were the big guys in society (...)

Lewis, Dan. 2025. “Why Do Nigerian Email Scammers Still Claim to Be from Nigeria?” Now I Know. 2025. [https://nowiknow.beehiiv.com/p/why-do-nigerian-email-scammers-still-claim-to-be-from-nigeria?_bhlid=43c31576d2ad39aa580b1c33cbb8ae567dcf0249&utm_campaign=why-do-nigerian-email-scammers-still-claim-to-be-from-nigeria&utm_medium=newsletter&utm_source=nowiknow.beehiiv.com](https://nowiknow.beehiiv.com/p/why-do-nigerian-email-scammers-still-claim-to-be-from-nigeria?_bhlid=43c31576d2ad39aa580b1c33cbb8ae567dcf0249&utm_campaign=why-do-nigerian-email-scammers-still-claim-to-be-from-nigeria&utm_medium=newsletter&utm_source=nowiknow.beehiiv.com).

dii 250204a #comoohomempensa [[Como o homem pensa vieses cognitivos\|Como o homem pensa vieses cognitivos]] RQR18e2 ex-82D58g #sapienskkk [[Sapiens kkk\|Sapiens kkk]] RQR6H5 34h51s