---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/63c49p-psicologia-como-substituto-moderno-da-mitologia-e-da-salvacao/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

## 63c49p psicologia como substituto moderno da mitologia e da salvação

texto integral e frases grifadas: ev 080421b - texto com grifos: BK 080421b - resumo: RC 216 (k30) - BTB ok

Rami Gabriel is an associate professor of psychology and founding fellow at the Research Group in Mind, Science and Culture at Columbia College Chicago. He is the author of A Suspicious Science: The Uses of Psychology (forthcoming) and Why I Buy: Self, Taste, and Consumer Society in America (2013), and co-author with Stephen Asma of The Emotional Mind: Affective Roots of Culture and Cognition (2019). 

GABRIEL, Rami. Myth and the mind. Aeon. Disponível em: <https://aeon.co/essays/how-psychology-fills-the-gap-from-the-disenchantment-of-the-world>. Acesso em: 13 Apr. 2021.


**fichado em RC 216

(...) psychology fills the gap from the disenchantment of the world (...) form of knowledge enmeshed with our mythical understanding of deeper questions of significance.(...) people no longer turn to sacred books to understand who and what they are. Psychology is where many find meaning. (...) the stories we tell ourselves through psychology fulfil many of the same functions served in the traditional belief practices of mythology. (...) 

Mythology is really a set of beliefs buttressed by practices, or rituals, that together console our desire for explanation. (...) Romanian theorist Mircea Eliade wrote in 1957: ‘Myth never quite disappears from the present world of the psyche … it only changes its aspect.’ (...) In the imaginary world we enter through novels, to the weightless experience of desire that’s consumerism, we inhabit the broad spaces of meaning-construction. 

Through superhero comic books, to the obscure immanence of modern art, from visions of paradisiacal vacations, to computer games and the self-mythologising of social media production, we seek a higher ground beyond the banal and the profane. (...) flood, (...) crisis in human-divine relations (...) during the Axial Age (800–200 BCE), faith developed in an environment of early trade economies, at which time we observe a concern with individual conscience, morality, compassion and a tendency to look within. According to Karen Armstrong’s A Short History of Myth (2005), these Axial myths of interiority indicate that people felt they no longer shared the same nature as the gods, and that the supreme reality had become impossibly difficult to access. (...) ways to portray these social transformations in macrocosmic stories. (...) mythology? It’s an organised canon of beliefs that explains the state of the world. (...) also delivers an origin story (...)  #mitologia 

Contemporary psychology is a form of mythology insofar as it is an attempt to succor our need to believe in stories that provide a sense of value and signification in the context of secular modernity. The ways in which psychology is used–for example in experiments or self-​help literature or personality tests or brain scans–are means of providing rituals to enact the myths of personhood and materialism. (...) Belief is our guiding star. Believing in something is an act of commitment guided by the emotions and solidified by habit and repetition. (...) the emotional core of the act of reason is the seeking of warrant for belief. A thinker’s duty to truth and away from error is itself a sort of affective push. (...) decision-​making is itself subject to emotional factors such as fear, hope, prejudice and imitation, not to mention social pressures. Both reflective and unreflective belief are subject to emotional influences. (...) 

Contemporary society, in particular, with its facts, experts and overabundance of information, brings to the fore James’s contention that, when deciding between options on intellectual grounds is too complicated, it’s our emotions that decide. (...) What makes an explanation satisfying is that it accords with the social system in which one is embedded. (...) Émile [[Durkheim\|Durkheim]]’s (...) society itself is what bestows significance upon beliefs. (...) The structures that make up our domesticated social world depend upon the adoption of particular beliefs that enable basic understanding and practical heuristics. (...) Any given set of beliefs is real to anyone who shares it. Or, as Durkheim put it, no religions are false; (...) modernity takes up the energy of religious belief and produces substitutes such as professional sports, Marxism-Leninism, social justice and celebrity worship. (...)  #comunismo 

Charles Taylor writes in A Secular Age (2007), ‘the only locus of thoughts, feelings, spiritual élan is what we call minds … and minds are bounded, so that these thoughts, feelings, etc, are situated “within” them.’ The realm of psychology now encapsulates the spheres heretofore reserved for spirits, demons and gods. (...) **the promissory note that the mind is the brain has yet to be cashed in**. (...) empirical psychology as a set of pragmatic methods to develop discursively helpful metaphors of the mind (...) Psychology has come to take on the rhetoric of personal enlightenment in its therapeutic practices and thus attempts to serve as a means of salvation. (...)  #neurociência #salvação #medicalização #new-age 

The mythology of psychology satisfies the affective and cognitive needs of belief. For reflective belief, it offers explanation (...) For non-reflective belief, myth is enacted and entrained in a set of rituals. For example, one can believe that personality is caused by the chemical balance (or imbalance) of neurotransmitters, and one can enact this by the ritual of taking medication. (...) Meaning-seeking creatures need stories to deal with the unknown and provide guidance as to where we came from and where we’re going. (...) offer a motivation for why things are the way they are. (...) **the aspect of myth that dictates ethics has been underplayed**. **Modern man is, as Eliade claimed, in an anxious limbo in the middle of an initiatory ritual of dying**. 

tags: #psicologia #filosofia #o_sentido #epistemologia  #filo-vs-religião   #mitologia #bnw #star #freud-stuff  #comoohomempensa #salvação #religião #morte_de_deus  #new-age #mimimi  - parent: [[Psicologia\|Psicologia]]; [[Comunismo\|Comunismo]] - [[Sociologia\|Sociologia]] - akin: [[Mitologia\|Mitologia]];  - akin: [[Como o homem pensa vieses cognitivos\|Como o homem pensa vieses cognitivos]] - akin: [[Brave new world\|Brave new world]] - akin: [[O sentido\|O sentido]] - akin: [[Salvacao transcendencia consolo\|Salvacao transcendencia consolo]] | [[Morte de deus\|Morte de deus]] | [[Filosofia vs. religiao\|Filosofia vs. religiao]]