---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/64-e15q-tim-harford-porque-caimos-em-contos-do-vigario-a-incrivel-historia-do-capitao-voigt/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

tags:  #comoohomempensa #comoohomempensa #vícios #virtudes #sapienskkk #psicologia #ética  #poder 
parent: [[Como o homem pensa vieses cognitivos\|Como o homem pensa vieses cognitivos]]
akin: [[Psicologia\|Psicologia]]
akin: [[Etica\|Etica]] #economia-comportamental [[Economia psicologica ou comportamental ou Psicologia economica\|Economia psicologica ou comportamental ou Psicologia economica]]
akin: [[Antropologia filosofica\|Antropologia filosofica]]
akin: [[Politica\|Politica]] 
akin: [[vicios ganancia RQR 6d13d\|vicios ganancia RQR 6d13d]]
akin: [[vicios mentira RQR 6d13N\|vicios mentira RQR 6d13N]] 

## 20191214132735 tim harford porque caímos em contos do vigário a incrível história do capitão Voigt

> **Suma: (a) aparência e atitude confiante do farsante fazem toda diferença; (b) pessoas querem ser convencidas, basta apelar à ganância, à luxúria ou ao medo; (c) se o malandro vai muito lentamente do razoável ao absurdo, a vítima persiste no absurdo para não admitir que cometeu um erro**.

Captain Voigt never existed. They met instead Herr Wilhelm Voigt, an ex-convict, an ex-shoemaker, a nobody, who possessed nothing more than a confident manner . . . and a very nice uniform ... a group of young upper-class pranksters including the novelist Virginia Woolf and the artist Duncan Grant managed to arrange for a tour of the Royal Navy’s flagship, HMS Dreadnought, by putting on turbans, brown make-up and fake beards, and claiming to be from the royal family of Abyssinia ... thinking about Stanley Milgram ... 65 per cent of experimental subjects went all the way to 450 volts, applying shocks long after the man in the other room had fallen silent ... Milgram’s research agenda was influenced by the shadow of the Holocaust and a desire to understand how it had been possible. He made the link explicit, and argued that his experiment was all about “obedience to authority”. But modern scientists no longer see Milgram’s research in quite that way. ... **when the man in the lab coat gave direct orders, they backfired**. ... **People need to be persuaded, not bullied, into participating** ... Milgram’s shock machine had 30 settings, fine increments of 15 volts. It’s hard to object to giving someone a tiny 15-volt shock. And if you’ve decided that 15 volts is fine, then why draw the line at 30 volts? Why draw the line at 45? Why draw the line at all? At 150 volts, the “learner” yelled out in distress. Some people stopped at that point. But those who continued past 150 volts almost always kept going to the full 450 volts. They were in too deep. Refusing to administer a shock of 225 volts would be an implicit admission that they had been wrong to deliver 210. Perhaps Stanley ==**Milgram’s experiments weren’t a study of obedience so much as a study of our unwillingness to stop and admit that we’ve been making a dreadful mistake**==. (RQR6d8a - stanford e milgram #psicologia #comoohomempensa #sapienskkk )... Wilhelm Voigt’s con and Milgram’s shock experiments are evidence for the idea that we’ll do anything for a figure of authority wearing the right outfit. But look deeper and they’re evidence for something else — that **we’re willing to help out with reasonable requests, and that step by step we can find ourselves trapped in a web of our own making**. Each small movement binds us more tightly to the con artist. We become complicit; breaking free becomes all but impossible. ... serious statistical analysis concludes that ==**taller presidential candidates are more likely to win the election**==, more likely to win re-election, and more likely — unlike Donald Trump — to win the popular vote ... voters favour candidates based on the most superficial characteristics imaginable. For example, one study — by economists Daniel Benjamin and Jesse Shapiro — found that ==**people were fairly good at predicting the victor of an election for state governor after being shown a brief piece of video of a gubernatorial debate with the sound turned off**==: just looking at the candidates seemed to be enough to judge who voters would pick. In fact, giving people audio too actually made the predictions worse, presumably because it distracted them from what mattered: appearances. ... Milgram well understood the need to get the clothes right. In a variation where the experimenter didn’t wear a lab coat, few people went to 450 volts ... fraudsters put people into what psychologists call a “hot state”. We don’t think so clearly when we’re hungry, or angry, or afraid. ... Third, they pull the heist one small step at a time ... ==**Give us someone who looks or sounds the part; apply a bit of fear, anger, lust or greed; and then proceed in salami slices from the reasonable to the insane, so smoothly that we don’t stop to think**==. ...

(HARFORD, T. Why we fall for cons. Tim Harford. Disponível em: <http://timharford.com/2019/12/why-we-fall-for-cons/>. Acesso em: 14 Dec. 2019.) ‌

ev 141219a, partes grifadas em Liner. [[Tim Harford\|Tim Harford]]

#psicologia #sapienskkk #ganância-vícios viéses cognitivos, como o homem pensa

(caso Virginia woolf disfarçada de Abissínia [prince Abyssinia gp221219f](https://photos.fife.usercontent.google.com/pw/AP1GczNU3V1iqYQqzE-QFW01kYgAIX1Q0dB5qjU4LeYjPeOTm1lCXoEsYf7MWw=w1080-h1920-s-no?authuser=0))