---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/apagajah2/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

In 2013, Google set up a longevity research unit. Calico, an abbreviation of California Life Company, boasts tie-ups with pharmaceutical companies and institutions such as Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Its approach, focused on combating neurodegenerative disease and cancer, is aimed at nudging us closer to the theoretical maximum human lifespan, estimated to be about 140-150 years. (...) radical life extension, promising human lifespans that potentially unspool over centuries rather than decades. That is the suspected mission of Altos Labs, a new Silicon Valley start-up that has pulled together a team of renowned scientists, (...) Altos is reportedly backed by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and Russian-born billionaire tech investor Yuri Milner, a friend of Mr Mark Zuckerberg of Meta Platforms, formerly known as Facebook.
Other fledgling organisations pursuing life extension include the Hevolution Foundation, a non-profit investment fund dedicated to research into “healthspans”, established by royal decree in Saudi Arabia and headed by Mr Mehmood Khan, a former chief scientific officer at PepsiCo; and the Longevity Science Foundation in Switzerland, which intends to invest US(cifrão)1 billion (S(cifrão)1.35 billion) to the same end. (...) “The individuals contributing this wealth (to anti-ageing research) don’t have anywhere else left to go,” observes Dr Daniel Ives (...) “The funders have got everything – the high life and more profit than they can dream of,” he adds. “The only thing left to do is to change reality (...)” (...) 
A 2013 Pew survey of public attitudes found that just **4 per cent of Americans want to live beyond the age of 120, and only 1 per cent want to live forever**. (...) According to the King’s Fund think-tank, **the average British woman dies at 83 after nearly two decades of “not good” health** (pre-Covid-19 statistics). 
( #velhice ) **Evolution demands nothing more than reaching reproductive age so that we can propagate our species**. 
Article Name:Would you want to live beyond 150?. Publication:The Straits Times. Author:Anjana Ahuja FINANCIAL TIMES Anjana Ahuja is a science commentator. Date: 3 Nov 2021. Start Page:A20. End Page:A20). q.v.  [[Morte\|Morte]] | [[TESCREAL transumanismo longotermismo\|TESCREAL transumanismo longotermismo]] | [[Religiao\|Religiao]] | [[O sentido\|O sentido]] | [[Brave new world\|Brave new world]]] | [[Tech tecnologia\|Tech tecnologia]] | [[Ciencias\|Ciencias]] | [[Biologia\|Biologia]] | [[Medicina\|Medicina]] | #medicina #ciência #morte #o_sentido #condição-humana #tescreal #religião #bnw [[Imortalidade Projeto Gilgamesh\|Imortalidade Projeto Gilgamesh]] RQR6q18  hedonismo [[Ismos clubinhos igrejinhas escolas e correntes\|Ismos clubinhos igrejinhas escolas e correntes]] #igrejinhas [[Hedonismo\|Hedonismo]]
=====================================================
