---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/apagamim2/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

In 2013, Google set up a longevity research unit. Calico, an abbreviation of California Life Company, boasts tie-ups with pharmaceutical companies and institutions such as Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Its approach, focused on combating neurodegenerative disease and cancer,  is aimed at nudging us closer to the theoretical maximum human lifespan, estimated to be about 140-150 years. (...) radical life extension, promising human lifespans that potentially unspool over centuries rather than decades. That is the suspected mission of Altos Labs, a new Silicon Valley start-up that has pulled together a team of renowned scientists, (...) Altos is reportedly backed by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and Russian-born billionaire tech investor Yuri Milner, a friend of Mr Mark Zuckerberg of Meta Platforms, formerly known as Facebook.  Other fledgling organisations pursuing life extension include the Hevolution Foundation, a non-profit investment fund dedicated to research into “healthspans”, established by royal decree in Saudi Arabia and headed by Mr Mehmood Khan, a former chief scientific officer at PepsiCo; and the Longevity Science Foundation in Switzerland, which intends to invest US(cifrão)1 billion (S(cifrão)1.35 billion) to the same end. (...) “The individuals contributing this wealth (to anti-ageing research) don’t have anywhere else left to go,” observes Dr Daniel Ives (...)  “The funders have got everything – the high life and more profit than they can dream of,” he adds.  “The only thing left to do is to change reality (...)” (...) A 2013 Pew survey of public attitudes found that just **4 per cent of Americans want to live beyond the age of 120, and only 1 per cent want to live forever**. (...) According to the King’s Fund think-tank, **the average British woman dies at 83 after nearly two decades of “not good” health** (pre-Covid-19 statistics).  ( #velhice ) **Evolution demands nothing more than reaching reproductive age so that we can propagate our species**. This means there is no selection pressure on genes associated with conditions that show up in later life, like Alzheimer’s (...) (Yamanaka showed) you could take any cell of any age from any part of the body and reprogramme it to go all the way back to zero age and zero state of identity.” (...) “the biggest revolution in medicine, health, maybe even society, that humanity has ever experienced” (...)  Then again, **scientists have hacked our biology before, to make babies in test tubes. That was once seen as impossible, radical and unnatural. Assisted reproduction is now a fact of life:  By July 2018, an estimated 8 million IVF – in-vitro fertilisation – babies had been born**. IS IT ETHICAL? (...) **While bacteria and cancer cells are in effect immortal, he explained in an interview recently, whole organisms are not. All animals die, suggesting that death co-evolved with sex**: “(Reproduction) is like a lottery. You’re tossing different combinations of genes out at life to see which ones can do better but, in order to give them a shot, the older generation has to get out of the way”. For Dr Ramakrishnan, whom one suspects will be a will-not, **the perpetual avoidance of death is not heroism but a form of hedonism** “advocated by California billionaires who are having such a good time at the party of life that they don’t want it to stop. They don’t want to go out into the cold night at their appointed time”. Article Name:Would you want to live beyond 150?. Publication:The Straits Times. Author:Anjana Ahuja FINANCIAL TIMES Anjana Ahuja is a science commentator. Date: 3 Nov 2021. Start Page:A20. End Page:A20). q.v.  [[Morte\|Morte]] | [[TESCREAL transumanismo longotermismo\|TESCREAL transumanismo longotermismo]] | [[Religiao\|Religiao]] | [[O sentido\|O sentido]] | [[Brave new world\|Brave new world]]] | [[Tech tecnologia\|Tech tecnologia]] | [[Ciencias\|Ciencias]] | [[Biologia\|Biologia]] | [[Medicina\|Medicina]] | #medicina #ciência #morte #o_sentido #condição-humana #tescreal #religião #bnw [[Imortalidade Projeto Gilgamesh\|Imortalidade Projeto Gilgamesh]] RQR6q18  hedonismo [[Ismos clubinhos igrejinhas escolas e correntes\|Ismos clubinhos igrejinhas escolas e correntes]] #igrejinhas [[Hedonismo\|Hedonismo]] =====================================================